Word Cases in "Shu Shu Fu"

Dou Meng


My younger brother, Shang Nianjun, is named Lingchang, Zhang and Wang in calligraphy and ink, and Lingban and Ma in Wenwen. The rhetoric is powerful, and the grass is profound. There are more than 100,000 words of inscriptions, poems, odes, and chapters in his life. Compared with the magnificent ones, there are "Fu of Datong" and "Fu of Sandian Cu_" presented by Tianbao. It is based on irony, prosperity and freezing and purification; it is based on Kuang Jun's saving time. The emperor is Zier, who can compile books, envoys to kings, honor Qili, dragon chapters and phoenix seal scripts, and favor Xi Confucianism. In his later years, he also wrote "Shu Shu Fu", with a total of 7,460 words, which is concise and essential, and the secret meaning is carefully identified. Collecting "Five Classics" and "Three Tombs", examining "Jiuqiu", "Basuo", "Poetry", "Sao", "Li", "Yi", and the collection of anthologies are still unknown. So don't make a conclusion and make a statement, and the Qu Shen is profound. One word and one sentence, the meaning of the number bypasses. Mr. Shangnian learned about heaven and man, and he was able to understand the ancient scriptures. His annotations and analysis were all based on historical biography. The notes are not exhausted, in this example; the meaning is not exhausted, in this case. For all the ancient and modern wise men, the main text calls out the words; the distinguished elders, each speaks about his relatives. Or take advantage of the official, or because of the words of the title. A sentence is two words, three words, five words, four words, and, between, between, or six, or eight. When changing times and revolutions, follow one another. Concerned about scholars raising doubts, Shi Zhu points out. The rationale and examples of this language have unique characters. There are one hundred and twenty words, and two hundred and forty sentences are noted. Both praise and derogation are also the same posthumous posthumous method. The text is full of emotion, but the caress has collapsed. The handwriting is just like the pen that has always been written; the genius Zhuoer has been divided for thousands of years. Kaoyi remembers the heart, and smiles in the eyes. One branch is broken first, and the pain penetrates the liver and intestines. Both eyes are dry, mourning entangles the bone marrow.


font
There are one hundred and twenty words, and two hundred and forty sentences are noted.


Forget it
The carved osprey faces the wind, and naturally Qianzhu.

natural
Yuanhong is more beautiful when it comes out of the water.

rustic
Fairy and jade girl, Fen Dai He Shi.

chop mill
Fang Shen is ingenious in the wrong-color glyphs.

genre
Every mistake, there is evidence.

state of mind
Back to Xiang movement, Jue interest hand in hand.

dishonest
The front is thick and the back is thin, half failure, half success.

withered
If you want to turn north to south, the Qi veins are cut off.

Professionally
Yishi's family, the present and the past are not mixed.

intentionally
Aspiration is success, neither workmanship nor precision.

just
Clothes and crowns are dragging, as if walking as if walking.

OK
The sword and shoes tend to be strong, step by step.

Grass
Lightning and thunder rush, dragons and snakes come and go.

chapter
Ligu in the grass, kicking and swinging.

god
Unintended, can be recognized.

holy
Absolutely famous sayings, with great concentration.

arts
Longevity and latitude can be long or long.

Wu
Turn back the spear and turn the crossbow, capture the tiger and take the leopard.

able
A thousand kinds of romance are called energy.

wonderful
All kinds of tastes are wonderful.

Refined
Both achievements and achievements are called fineness.

antiquity
In addition to common sense, it is ancient.

Yat
If there is no way to trace, it is called Yi.

high
Transcendence is superior.

great
Wonderful exposure said Wei.

old
Inadvertent self-awareness is old.

La
The super power is more wonderful, said La.

tender
If you are not strong enough, you will be tender.

Thin
Que Yu Yuanbei said thin.

powerful
Muscle strength is exposed and it is said to be strong.

stable
The structure is flat and stable.

quick
The interest is non-stop.

Shen
Deep and far-reaching means sinking.

tight
The closeness of the reunion is tight.

slow
Behavior is leisurely and detailed.

float
If there is nothing to return to, it is called floating.

dense
It is not allowed to say secret.

shallow
Involved in the vulgar said shallow.

rich
The pen and ink phase is called Feng.

Mao
Most of the characters are extravagantly called Mao.

Korea
There is more than beauty outside the body.

macro
The tailoring is extremely strong, which is called macro.

Reality
Feeling the wind and clouds is the truth.

light
The flow of the pen is said to be light.

barren
Thin and powerful is called barren.

sparse
Violation of yin and yang is called sparse.

clumsy
If you don't rely on it, it's called clumsiness.

Heavy
Quality is better than words.

fiber
The text is too slender.

Chastity
The bones are clear and the spirit is clean, called chastity

colorful
Less old, more beautiful today.

Jun
Setback Yingda said Jun.

Run
The purport is smooth and smooth.

risk
Unexpectedly, it is called danger.

cowardly
If you don't write fiercely, you are timid.

fear
Unreasonable shyness said fear.

Yan
The meandering row hits Yueyan.

flattering
It means to be charming outside the shape.

false
The hidden front of Zangfeng is called falsehood.

thin
The use of deep said fine.

cooked
Too much is not as good as being familiar.

male
Don't lose the heroic prestige.

female
Insufficient climate is called female.

fly
If it dies, if it doesn't exist, it will fly.

Cool
Solemn and floating said cool.

move
If you want to run and fly, you can move.

become
A family is said to be successful.

present
The rules and regulations of moving and cooperating are called rituals.

Law
It is advisable to have a comprehensive method.

canon
Follow the teacher's contract and say the code.

but
Rules can be taught.

Partial
Only keeping one door is called partiality.

Dry
If there is no more glory, it will be dry. Ancient cold cut.

slip
So the lack of style is called slippery.

drive
The waves were shocked and said to drive.

put
Wandering endlessly is called letting go.

pull
Light driving super special said pulling out.

idle
Gu Yunsheng is far away and said idle.

depressed
When the wind rises from the victory, it is said to be depressed.

show
Xiangji can hardly be called Xiu.

bundle
If you are not interested, Hong said it is over.

scorpion
The five flavors are all enough to say 秾.

steep
The strength in the steep is steep.

scattered
There is a beginning and no end, and it will be scattered.

quality
Since the young demon Yan said quality.

Lu
Ben Zong said Lu indifferently.

Fat
The tortoise is in the cave, and there is more than enough.

thin
He stands tall and tall, long but not short.

strong
Power cares about being strong first.

Width
Evacuation without inspection is called wide.


In the tenth year of the Dali calendar, in Yimao, February, Yichou, the first school of Weidou Shizhi, Xia County, the Governor's Mansion of Shanzhou. Dou Meng, magistrate of Taiyuan County, re-inspected the school.